hi everyone and welcome to Nicko's
kitchens what you want today's recipe
request comes in from the Facebook user
Stacie Walkley and she's asked me to
make some cold cannon the irish classic
and one of my favorites so let's get
started so guys the first thing that
we're going to do to get started on our
cannon is cook our potatoes now I'm
using two potatoes for this I'm using
just ordinary white washed bleached
potatoes but I'm also going to be using
a sweet potato because I want the
contrast of the two flavors now just
into a large pot here I've got some
boiling salted water and I'm gonna add
in our potatoes and I've just cut them
up into chunks now I want you to treat
this like you're making mashed potatoes
okay
I want you to cook the potatoes through
over this boil so it's a medium to high
heat and we're going to cook this for
about 8 to 10 minutes until those
potatoes are nice and soft and we can
mash them now guys once they mash them
okay we want that real rustic sort of
chunky look we don't want to smooth
potato puree so that's where I want my
potatoes done okay so I'm just gonna
leave them in the bowl and let them cool
down
and while they're cooling down we'll get
started on our cabbage and also on our
milk mixture so with our cabbage what
I'm gonna do is just cook it very very
quickly because I still want to a
cabbage to have some crunch to it so
just into a pot of simmering salted
water I've got some green cabbage here
that I've just shredded up and this is
only going to need about five minutes
that's all over a medium heat here now
over here on a smaller saucepan what I'm
gonna be doing is making a milk and
spring onion or scallion mixture so just
into
and here over medium heat I'm gonna be
adding in some milk and just for some
real fantastic flavoring and it will
just all work when this is done I've got
some ground nutmeg that I'm just going
to add in to the milk and of course I've
got some green spring green onions or
some scallions that I'm just going to be
adding to the milk as well for about
three to four minutes over a high heat
until that milks warm through and those
green onions just to start to soften
slightly so this is all our cabbage
needs so I'm going to now drain this off
the Heat's off and I'm gonna drain it
now as you can see here our milk is
starting to just boil around the edges
now when that starts happening
I've just got a knob of butter here and
I'm just gonna place that in the middle
and I want that to melt down and that's
gonna give this milk mixture here with
the spring onion a real creamy velvety
texture so that is now done okay where
it's exactly where we want it so we're
going to turn the heat off now we can
assemble our cold cannon so we've got
everything here we've got our potato
mash we've got our spring onion milk
mixture and our cabbage just here so
what I'm gonna do first is grab our
cabbage and place it in our potato mix
and then I'm going to pour over our milk
and spring onion mixture and now I want
you just to mix all that together
so we've just got some chives in the
middle and I want to sprinkle over some
more spring onions or scallions just
over the top
so guys they have it there's my version
of colcannon I absolutely love it and I
love the way it looks it just looks with
the chives and the spring onions like
those potatoes are just still growing in
the ground and you just want to get
stuck into that cabbage the two types of
potato and man that's one exactly what
I'm gonna do right now it get stuck in
so a real personal favorite of mine is
called cannon I absolutely love it I had
it so many times growing up as a kid and
I've changed it over the years and this
is my favorite take on it so here we go
there's always such good flavors and
that combination of the sweet potato the
normal potato worked really well and
it's just so tasty and Morris you just
want more and more and more and you can
have this as a meal by itself and if you
really wanted to get creative with it
add some bacon to it you know it'll just
bring it alive again so there's so many
different variations you can have it as
a main meal or as a side dish it's up to
you but in any case you've got to give
this a try so cold cannon I hope you
give this one a try it is so so good
and I love it it's one of my personal
favorites all the ingredients are below
so check it out I'll see you this Friday
for another fast food recipe so until
then you take care